# Leadership

We reflected and discussed on governance during the [November 12 Planning Meeting](https://github.com/tomeshnet/documents/blob/master/meeting_notes/20161112_planning-meeting-notes.md) and consensed to refine our approach to governance as follows:

- Use the **working group** model:
  - Rotating leads who steer work and strategy within working groups, leads are _required_ to rotate out every planning meeting
  - Leads responsible and main point of contact for coordinating
- Stick to an established **meeting schedule**:
  - Monthly check-ins(casual, social and roughly an hour) for an update from working group leads
  - Six-month planning meeting, where we review previous roadmap and establish a new one, establish new leads and address any other issues
- Make use of our decentralized **collaboration tools**:
  - Tracking working groups projects with Wekan
  - Working group areas on our chat and github

## Decision Making

Toronto Mesh uses voting to determine whether we have reached consensus:

- _Thumbs up_: go ahead, care about the issue and happy with direction
- _Closed fist_: "no-block"
- _Thumbs down_: needs more discussion, feel strongly enough to block

## Working Groups

### Cycle IV (2017 April)

Third working groups with leads established at November 12 Planning Meeting.
Excerpted from [Planning Meeting Notes - November 12, 2016](https://github.com/tomeshnet/documents/blob/master/meeting_notes/20161112_planning-meeting-notes.md)

| Working Group | Lead |
| --- | --- |
| **Central Org** (_ongoing_) | dasanchez |
| (Welcome/Intros) **Onboarding** (_ongoing_) | Pedro.S |
| **Tools** (_ongoing_) | co-lead benhylau, dasanchez, Pedro.S, udit |
| **Website** (_ongoing_) | dcwalk |
| **Virtual Mesh** (_ongoing_) |  |
| **Deployment** (_ongoing_) | Pedro.S |
| **Hardware** aka **node.tech** (_ongoing_) | udit |
| **Code of Conduct** (_ongoing_) | dcwalk |

### Cycle III (2016 November)

Third working groups with leads established at November 12 Planning Meeting.
Excerpted from [Planning Meeting Notes - November 12, 2016](https://github.com/tomeshnet/documents/blob/master/meeting_notes/20161112_planning-meeting-notes.md)

| Working Group | Lead |
| --- | --- |
| **Central Org** (_ongoing_) | dcwalk |
| (Welcome/Intros) **Onboarding** (_ongoing_) | josh_o |
| **Tools** (_ongoing_) | benhylau |
| **Website** (_ongoing_) | garry |
| **Virtual Mesh** (_ongoing_) | benhylau |
| **Miniconf** (Jan deadline) | dcwalk |
| **Deployment** (Feb deadlines and _ongoing_) | udit |
| **Funding/Grants** (Jan to Mar deadlines and _ongoing_) | anastasia |
| **Code of Conduct** (_ongoing_) | dcwalk, anastasia |

### Cycle II (2016 August)

Second working groups established at August 05 Planning Meeting.
Excerpted from [Planning Meeting Notes - August 5, 2016](https://github.com/tomeshnet/documents/blob/master/meeting_notes/20160805_planning-meeting-notes.md)

| Working Group | Members |
| --- | --- |
| **Prototype** | |
| **Deployment** | |
| **Code of Conduct** | Lee, Nick, Ben, Leandro, Dennis, David, Curtis, Michael, dcwalk |
| **Website** | |
| **Logo** | |
| **Vision Statement** | |

### Cycle I (2016 April)

First working groups established at April 18 Planning Meeting.
Excerpted from [Planning Meeting Notes - April 18, 2016](https://github.com/tomeshnet/documents/blob/master/meeting_notes/20160418_meeting-notes.md)

| Working Group | Members |
| --- | --- |
| **Hardware** | Ben, Udit, dcwalk |
| **Software** | Ben, Garry |
| **Use Cases for the Mesh** | Udit, Ben, Garry |
| **Outreach** | Vince, Ben |
| **Literacy Development** | Yuri, Matt |
| **Knowledge Management** | Matt, dcwalk |
| **Design** | Matt |
| **Website** | dcwalk, Matt, Garry |
